Project Title: Room Scheduler
This project was built inorder to solve a problem at Western Colorado University. The initial problems was that there was no central data point for room data for eight of the academic buildings on campus.The process involved contacting a building admin to figure out room availability. This process was inefficient and slow. The application that I built creates that central point for all the room data. This application was built using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, SQL, and PythonFlask. 

How it works:
The project is hosted live on Pythonanywhere at: https://westernroomscheduler.pythonanywhere.com/
When visiting this site, the user will be taken to the student view. This view allows access to every academic building on campus along with a calendar on the right and a classes section on the left. The user must click on a day to view what classes are available on the selected day. The section on the left will display all the class information. The information is ordered by time from earliest to lastest. If a user would like to request access to a room, they can scroll down and press the request room link under the calendar. This will take the user to the request page allowing them to type in their name, email, event name, start date, end date, start time, and end time. This information is necessary for the building admin. After the user enters the information, they will press the get available rooms button and this will check if there are rooms open for the specific time. If no rooms are available then the user will be prompted to select a different time. Once the user enters a time when rooms are available then the drop-down menu will be populated with the available rooms. Once the user selects the room they want they can submit the event. This will then take the user back to the home page.

The admin portal can be accessed from the login link on the nav bar. The user must enter correct credentials inorder to access the admin portal. Once the user logs in, they are taken to their dashboard. Each dashboard is specific to each building admin. The admin has access to look at incoming room requests or to re-sync the database. When the admin selects the view room request, they are taken to a page that shows all incoming requests. Each request will have all of the data the user entered and will also have a button to approve or deny the event. If the admin needs more information, they must reach out to the user from the provided email. If the admin is happy with the event they can press the approve button and it will move it to the current events seciton. If an event is a current event, it will display with the provided information along with a remove button. If an event is approved, the students are then able to see the event in the left section under the events tab on the student view. After the event is over the admin will have the option to remove the event from the events section. If an event is denied, the admin must reach out to the user and tell them their event was denied. 

If the admin chooses to re-sync the calendar, they can do so by pressing the update calendar link. Admins should do this at the beginning of each semester so that the class data is revelant. If the admin presses this they must update the calendar otherwise there will be no data in the calendar. After pressing the link, the admin will be taken to the sync page where they need to select a term. Once the term is submitted they will press the sync button and wait for the message to appear below progress. The message will tell the admin that the calendar has been updated with the slected term. Once they see this message they will then press next and wait 30 seconds to 1 minute. This process is updating the calendar with the current semester information. Once the calendar is updated, the admin will be taken to a success page where they can then return to the dashboard. 

Running the application:
If a user would like to clone this repo and see this application on their local machine, they must enter valid database credentails. If they do not have valid database credentails this application will not work. Users can enter valid credentials in the connection.py file in the connection function. The application must be opened in VSCode inorder to see all necessary files. Thonny should also be used for the .py files. 

Contact: https://www.linkedin.com/in/shane-hargrave-311a82286/
